---
layout: work
author: Michael McDermott
title: Type Only
slug: p1
subhead: Project 1
categories: [projects]
excerpt: An investigation into typography as a means of communication and as a formal element in design. The base of the project will be choosing a character to physically construct, then documenting that character through photography and then integrating that image into a poster.


---

### Description

An investigation into typography as a means of communication and as a formal element in design. The base of the project will be choosing a character to physically construct, then documenting that character through photography and then integrating that image into a poster.

#### Part 1
Choose a letter and generate a list of words that start with that letter. The list can be verbs, adjectives, or nouns but should include more than 20 words. Once you have your list, choose a word that can help guide what typeface you choose the letter from, what material the letter is built from, and how the letter can look in a photograph. Next pick a typeface and construct your letter at a minimum of 12 inches tall. The letter should be the same proportions as the letter in the typeface with a reasonable guess at the thickness of the letter. Once your letter is constructed take at least five photographs of it. The photographs should just have your letter in them, no other items.

#### Part 2
Design a poster using at least one of the photographs of your letter and any other text based content you might choose to include. The poster is generally a formal study so pay attention to the basic design principles of alignment, balance, color, contrast, hierarchy, proximity, repetition, space, and so on. The final poster will be printed in color at 18 inches wide by 24 inches tall.

### Requirements

* Physically constructed letter, number, or character
* 18"x24"
* Includes your name on the poster
* Multiple levels of text

### Checkpoints
* August 26: Start
* September 2: At least 5 photographs of the physical letter, number, or character
* September 9: Two rough drafts, each printed in color on a tabloid sheet of paper
* September 16: One refined draft, tiled at full scale in black and white, color version can be viewed on screen
* September 23: One almost final draft, tiled or plotted in color
* September 30: Full size print in color and trimmed
