---
layout: work
author: Michael McDermott
title: Something in Motion
slug: p3
subhead: Project 3
categories: [projects]
excerpt: For this project you will be able to choose from a few options below or create your own project. If generating your own project you need to make sure to create a schedule and similar outcomes to the projects listed below.

---

### Description
You will conceptualize, plan, design, and animate a motion project of your choosing.

Each project has a specific set of goals and requirements that should be accomplished. You will find and  generate the content that fits the description for your chosen project. If you choose to create your own project, read through these to get a feel for the scope of work required.

The projects you can choose from are <a href="#poster">Moving Posters</a>, a <a href="#kinetic">Kinetic Type Video</a>, or a <a href="#title">Title Sequence</a>.

### Projects
#### <span id="poster">Moving Posters</span>
Design a series of two moving posters for a future, real event or events. The posters need to be conceptually similar and visually related and could be two posters for the same event or two posters for related events (think of [tour posters for a band](http://bradvetterdesign.com/shawn-mendes) or [theater posters for different shows](https://sta100.imgix.net/the-public-theater-2018-19/Screen-Shot-2018-09-13-at-11.02.09-AM.png?fit=clip&ixlib=php-1.1.0&q=80&w=1600&s=8e799c55230f434e64aa4aa3559dbb5a)). The design must retain the formal elements of a poster, communicate using the traditional rhetoric of a poster, and must scale to fit the portrait format (1080x1920). The choice of movement should feel natural and not distract from the content of the poster. The movement should emphasize the message of the poster not confuse the message.

##### Requirements
* Each poster moves for the amount of time it needs to move
* Information for the event is clearly displayed
* Portrait format at 1080x1920
* Loops seamlessly

##### Checkpoints
* October 6: Start
* October 13: Event selected, project plan meeting
* October 20: Two rough drafts for each set of posters (2 directions, 4 posters) with general plan for motion
* October 27: First still digital drafts of two posters in selected direction with brief storyboard for each
* November 3: Election day, no class, meetings available
* November 10: First draft of posters in motion
* November 17: Second draft of posters in motion
* November 24: Almost final draft of posters in motion
* December 1: Due

#### <span id="kinetic">Kinetic Type Video</span>
Make a one minute or more video combining type and audio. The audio can be a song, a clip from a show or film, a speech, etc. Keep in mind that certain aspects of the audio can influence decisions you make while animating the type so make sure you are familiar with the audio. Outside shapes, colors, and lines can be used but no pictures or videos. The video should have a title scene that includes the title for the audio and who made the audio. For example, a song would have a song title and artist name and a movie scene would have the movie title and characters involved.

##### Requirements
* At least a minute long
* Audio treated respectfully at the beginning and end
* 1920x1080 format
* Only text and paths/shapes, no outside images or video
* Title scene showing title of audio and maker of audio

##### Checkpoints
* October 6: Start
* October 13: Audio selected, project plan meeting
* October 20: Initial storyboards and 2 different concept board directions (colors, type, etc.)
* October 27: At least two refined concept boards and brief motion tests
* November 3: Election day, no class, meetings available
* November 10: Title section and first section animated (at least 20 seconds)
* November 17: Refined beginning and continuing to animate (at least 40 seconds)
* November 24: Full draft (at least 60 seconds)
* December 1: Due

#### <span id="title">Title Sequence</span>
Design a title sequence for a book of your choice. The book can be any length but fiction is probably the easiest category to choose from. You cannot use any visuals associated with the book and if you pick an illustrated book you certainly cannot use the illustrations in your sequence. The book should not already be a movie and you will be responsible for generating your own cast and crew to display. Take a look at this list on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opening_credits#Common_opening_credits_order) to get an idea of who you might want to display, you don't need to display them all. The title sequence should be one minute long or more.

##### Requirements
* At least a minute long
* 1920x1080 format
* Displays names and titles for a reasonable amount of people (probably around 10 to 15)
* Displays book title and based on a story by [author] at some point
* Uses audio

### Checkpoints
* October 6: Start
* October 13: Book selected, project plan meeting
* October 20: Initial storyboards and 2 different concept board directions (colors, type, imagery, etc.)
* October 27: At least two refined concept boards and story boards, animatic and/or motion tests with audio
* November 3: Election day, no class, meetings available
* November 10: First half completed (around 30 seconds)
* November 17: Full draft completed (at least 60 seconds)
* November 24: Refined full draft
* December 1: Due
